CC sessions page (#10284)
cockroachdb/docs: cockroachcloud/sessions-page.md

---
title: Sessions Page
summary: The Sessions page provides details of all open sessions in the cluster.
toc: true
---

The **Sessions** page of the CockroachCloud Console provides details of all open sessions in the cluster.

To view this page, click **Sessions** in the left-hand navigation of the CockroachCloud Console.

## Sessions list

Use the **Sessions** list to see the open sessions in the cluster. This includes active and idle sessions.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
A session is *active* if it has an open transaction (including implicit transactions, which are individual SQL statements), and *idle* if it has no open transaction. Active sessions consume hardware resources.

> {{site.data.alerts.end}}

Reviewer: This looks good. I might suggest one small improvement. I'm not seeing **active** and **idle** in the UI screenshot. Am I correct in assuming:

1. the terms are not actually displayed anywhere
2. that N/A is actually shown in the age columns for *idle* sessions?

If that's all true, then add point number 2 for clarity? (Or any other ways to identify which state that I'm missing.)

> - If an active session also has an open transaction, the most recent SQL statement will be displayed in the **Statement** column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If an active session also has an open transaction, the most recent SQL statement is displayed in the **Statement** column.
```

Reviewer: This is a style decision where I don't think we have guidance yet. I left a couple "will be" mentions later on in the parameter definitions because I liked their effect so you could leave this alone for consistency, or change them all, etc.

> - To view [details of a session](#session-details), click on the **Session Age**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To view [details of a session](#session-details), click the **Session Age**.
```

I don't think we have "click" vs "click on" in our style guide but the former seems a lot more common. Your call, since we don't have a style at the moment.

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/sessions-page.png' | relative_url }}" alt="CockroachCloud Console Database Tables View" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

The following are displayed for each active session:

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
Session Age | Amount of time the session has been open.
Txn Duration | Amount of time the transaction has been active, if there is an open transaction.
Statement Age | Amount of time the SQL statement has been active, if there is an active statement.

> Memory Usage | Amount of memory currently allocated to this session / maximum amount of memory this session has ever been allocated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memory Usage | Amount of memory currently allocated to this session, followed by the maximum amount of memory this session has ever been allocated.
```

I find this clearer when not studying the screenshot and just reading the table, but not an essential change.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
Sort by **Txn Duration** to display all active sessions at the top.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

## Session details

Click the **Session Age** of any session to display details and possible actions for that session.

<img src="{{ 'images/cockroachcloud/sessions-details-page.png' | relative_url }}" alt="CockroachCloud Console Database Tables View" style="border:1px solid #eee;max-width:100%" />

- **Session** shows the ID of the connected session.
	- **Session Start Time** shows the timestamp at which the session started.
	- **Gateway Node** shows the node ID and IP address/port of the [gateway](architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.html#gateway) node handling the client connection.
	- **Client Address** shows the IP address/port of the client that opened the session.

> 	- **Memory Usage** shows the amount of memory currently allocated to this session / maximum amount of memory this session has ever allocated.

Reviewer: Same suggestion to replace `/` with 'followed by the'...

	- The **Terminate Statement** button ends the SQL statement. The session running this statement will receive an error.
- **Transaction** will display the following information for an open transaction.
	- **Transaction Start Time** shows the timestamp at which the transaction started.
	- **Number of Statements Executed** shows the total number of SQL statements executed by the transaction.
	- **Number of Retries** shows the total number of [retries](../stable/transactions.html#transaction-retries) for the transaction.
	- **Number of Automatic Retries** shows the total number of [automatic retries](../stable/transactions.html#automatic-retries) run by CockroachDB for the transaction.
	- **Priority** shows the [priority](../stable/transactions.html#transaction-priorities) for the transaction.
	- **Read Only?** shows whether the transaction is read-only.
	- **AS OF SYSTEM TIME?** shows whether the transaction uses [`AS OF SYSTEM TIME`](../stable/performance-best-practices-overview.html#use-as-of-system-time-to-decrease-conflicts-with-long-running-queries) to return historical data.

> 	- **Memory Usage** shows the amount of memory currently allocated to this transaction / maximum amount of memory this transaction has ever allocated.

Reviewer: Same suggestion to replace the slash.
